Thu 20 Oct 12:16:46 BST 2016

	Sun-Tzu - The art of war
	Toffler(s)[?]

	countries that are most at risk from information warefare are those that value information the most

	There are no boundaries
	cyber warefare is targeted against the ind and the psyche of the nation and is aimed at affecting decision makers

	How will we know an act of information warefare? Attribution is key.

	90s IRA never attacked CRI, publicity was the goal, shock and awe. Effective strike against the enemy and their 
	resources, but not on the hearts and minds

	Larger more complex internet allows for greater obfuscation; how can we be sure with attribution?

	informaion operations
		
		Disrupt decision making processes
		dominate information infrastructure
		break things physically [EMP, incapacitate]

	Defensive operations

		threat intel, protection measures, incident response, intrusion detection etc.
		[make no assumptions, be paranoid, assume iminant attack]

		physical and personale security is paramount. people are any systems biggest weakness
		electronic measures are pointless without the above

		plan. implement assesment and response procedures

	inteligence
		
		understand threat landscape

		identify threat actors
		determin capability
		establish indicators and warnings
		perform vulnerability assesments

	protection measures
		
		deter attacks by any legal means

		opsec is as important as physical security - a failure of opsec leads to failures in infosec

	Attack response

		generate alerts, increase protection levels
		initiate deterrent-based offensive responses when source of attack can be determined

		tactical respons functions
			survailence, monitor
			issue controls to defend or restor
			audit and forensic analysis - determine behavioural patterns
			report to relevant chain of command and authorities
	
	Identify and attack your targets, either electronically and physically

	manage perceptions! [you cant just dronestrike an aparently innocent group!]

	intelligence is also important for battle damage assesment. You need to asses the damage you have done before
	continuing

	perception maagement
		
		public affairs - support of the populous

		civil affairs - forign civil authorities and their perceptions - hearts and minds

		PSYOPS - convey only selected information to your enemy - deception is key

	Tallinn Manual


